---
title: "Try to Have Clear Boundaries"
date: 2023-03-14T09:10:45-07:00
draft: true
---

I was inspired by a post titled "[Repeat yourself, do more than one thing, and rewrite everything](https://programmingisterrible.com/post/176657481103/repeat-yourself-do-more-than-one-thing-and)" to write down my own thoughts on the topic. While we do agree on a good number of points, new language has evolved since 2018 and I think some additional clarity can be brought to this topic. 

Don't repeat yourself - Probably the most harmful mantra taught to programmers. Repeating yourself is fine. There are a few ways to think about repeating yourself. Doing the same thing over and over. Exercise. Repeat yourself if you want to get better at the thing. However we have to be careful here. If you repeat the wrong thing you might not get good at what you want to get good at. Getting good is an extremely loose concept, so bear with me for a while. If you retype the same exact code into your computer, you are getting good at transcribing code. If you implement a shopping cart over and over you get really good at implementing a shopping cart. Presumably you will be thinking about your implementations as you write them and learning about what a shopping cart is. Where the concept bends and flexes, where you decide how it functions and for what use cases. But maybe you don't want to be good at implementing a shopping cart, you want to be good at running a store. Great, go use an open source shopping cart. You will still have to understand how it works in order to use it but it's likely much less time consuming than implementing it yourself. Get better at the thing you want to get better at and Repeat yourself.

Now for the other way of thinking about 'Repeat yourself', code duplication. Code duplication is fine. More often than not, just because code looks the same does not mean it is the same. Does the code actually do the same thing given the context of when it is used? Something generic like "remove the first element from the list" is generic but it isn't very useful in terms of programming, unless you are programming a library, but generally we're talking about building an application or some business process.